“No. She doesn’t need to accuse. She has a genius for insinuation.
Did you ever hear her, in the course of our discussion today, ever once
hear her accuse me of anything? Yet it seems I have been accused of a
multitude of things, of jealousy and paranoia, of not being man enough
to satisfy my wife, of having relations with male friends of mine, of
holding my cigarette in an affected manner, even - it seems to me -
accused of having nothing between my legs but a patch of hair - and
soft and downy and blond hair at that! Ball-cutter? Oh, you
underestimate her!”
Harding hushes all of a sudden and leans forward to take
McMurphy’s hand in both of his. His face is tilted oddly, edged, jagged
purple and gray, a busted wine bottle.
“This world … belongs to the strong, my friend! The ritual of our
existence is based on the strong getting stronger by devouring the
weak. We must face up to this. No more than right that it should be
this way. We must learn to accept it as a law of the natural world. The
rabbits accept their role in the ritual and recognize the wolf as the
strong. In defense, the rabbit becomes sly and frightened and elusive
and he digs holes and hides when the wolf is about. And he endures,
he goes on. He knows his place. He most certainly doesn’t challenge
the wolf to combat. Now, would that be wise? Would it?”
He lets go McMurphy’s hand and leans back and crosses his legs,
takes another long pull off the cigarette. He pulls the cigarette from his
thin crack of a smile, and the laugh starts up again - eee-eee-eee, like
a nail coming out of a plank.
“Mr. McMurphy … my friend … I’m not a chicken, I’m a rabbit. The
doctor is a rabbit. Cheswick there is a rabbit. Billy Bibbit is a rabbit. All
of us in here are rabbits of varying ages and degrees, hippity-hopping
through our Walt Disney world. Oh, don’t misunderstand me, we’re not
in here because we are rabbits - we’d be rabbits wherever we were -
we’re all in here because we can’t adjust to our rabbithood. We need a
good strong wolf like the nurse to teach us our place.”
“Man, you’re talkin’ like a fool. You mean to tell me that you’re
gonna sit back and let some old blue-haired woman talk you into being
a rabbit?”
“Not talk me into it, no. I was born a rabbit. Just look at me. I
simply need the nurse to make me happy with my role.”
“You’re no damned rabbit!”
“See the ears? the wiggly nose? the cute little button tail?”
“You’re talking like a crazy ma -”
“Like a crazy man? How astute.”
“Damn it, Harding, I didn’t mean it like that. You ain’t crazy that
way. I mean - hell, I been surprised how sane you guys all are. As
near as I can tell you’re not any crazier than the average asshole on
the street -